# T1055.008 - Ptrace System Calls
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/008)
<blockquote>
Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via ptrace (process trace) system calls in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Ptrace system call injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.

Ptrace system call injection involves attaching to and modifying a running process. The ptrace system call enables a debugging process to observe and control another process (and each individual thread), including changing memory and register values.(Citation: Linux Programmer's Manual) Ptrace system call injection is commonly performed by writing arbitrary code into a running process (ex: `malloc`) then invoking that memory with `PTRACE_SETREGS` to set the register containing the next instruction to execute. Ptrace system call injection can also be done with `PTRACE_POKETEXT`/`PTRACE_POKEDATA`, which copy data to a specific address in the target processes’ memory (ex: the current address of the next instruction). (Citation: Linux Programmer's Manual)(Citation: Code injection in running process using ptrace Jul 2018)

Ptrace system call injection may not be possible targeting processes that are non-child processes and/or have higher-privileges.(Citation: Linux-Inject Aug 2015)

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via ptrace system call injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.
</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Ptrace child process](#atomic-test-1---ptrace-child-process)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Ptrace child process
Ptrace child process
Creates a child process and ptrace-attaches to it. The parent process then reads child's state (last syscall number used), or kills the child on MacOS where ptrace functionality is limited.

**Supported Platforms:** Linux, Mac


**auto_generated_guid:** 9c573f58-1bd8-4dfc-a8d7-0d4b12e4a236


#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| input_file | Source Code | Path | PathToAtomicsFolder/T1055.008/src/T1055-008-ptrace.c|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `bash`! 


```cmd
gcc #{input_file} && ./a.out
clang #{input_file} && ./a.out
```

<br/>
